Solving DC circuits using numpy (#37)
numpy/numpy-tutorials: content/electrical/dc.md

---

> jupyter:

Reviewer: I don't know why this line is here, it doesn't show up for the other tutorials. Please check that this header is the same as for the other documents, so we don't have problems with jupytext and mystnb/sphinx.

print(f"Type of V: {type(V)}")

I = V/R

print(f"Current (A): {I}")
print(f"Length of I: {I.shape}")
print(f"Type of I: {type(I)}")
```

### Part 1d: Plotting using matplotlib

Use the library `matplotlib` to plot $V$ and $I$.

```{admonition} Note
Check out the 
[introductory](https://matplotlib.org/3.1.1/tutorials/introductory/pyplot.html)
tutorial on matplotlib's pyplot interface to learn more
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.plot(V, I)
plt.show() # Run this command if the plot doesn't show
```

```{figure} imgs/plot1_basic.png
---
width: 400px
---
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
plt.clf() # Clear the plot if there was anything on it
plt.plot(V, I)
plt.xlabel('Voltage (V)') # x-axis label
plt.ylabel('Current (A)') # y-axis label
plt.title('Ohms Law')
plt.grid()
```

```{figure} imgs/plot2_better.png
---
width: 400px
---
```

## Part 2: Finding the conditions for maximum power transfer

### Part 2a: Plotting maximum power transfer

```{figure} imgs/circuit3.png
---
width: 400px
height: 200px
---
Figure 3: Maximum Power Transfer Circuit
```

Electrical engineers claim that maximum power transfer will occur when Rload ==

> Rth. Write python code using NumPy arrays to test this.

Author: I was writing on the assumption that people reading are electrical engineers. But it's a great point that more people would probably want to read it, I'll add a bit more background whenever I introduce a new concept.

```{code-cell} ipython3
V = 8
Rth = 5

Rload = np.linspace(0.1, 50, 20)
Iload = V/(Rth + Rload) # Element wise division
Vload = Iload * Rload # Element wise multiplication
Pload = Iload * Vload

plt.plot(Rload, Pload)
```

```{figure} imgs/plot2_better.png
---
width: 400px
---

> ```

Author: I left both `dc.md` and `dc2.md` up. The later is the updated one and it doesn't have these. I'll delete the former so it doesn't cause confusion.

= 
\begin{bmatrix} R1+R2 & -R2 \\ -R2 & R2+R3 \end{bmatrix}^{-1} 
* 
\begin{bmatrix} V1 \\ -V2  \end{bmatrix}
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
Ainv = np.linalg.inv(A)
print(Ainv)

x = Ainv @ b # The @ operator multiplies two matrices
print(x)
```

```{figure} imgs/pikachu_angry.jpg
---
width: 500px
---

```

**NEVER** invert your matrices if you are programming on a computer (except if
you actually need the inverted matrix itself, which is rare). The process is
very sensitive to scaling, propagates numerical errors and will make **Pikachu**
angry! Instead use the `np.linalg.solve` function.

```{admonition} Note 1
If you want to learn more about the complications arising from matrix inversion,
check out this
(article)[https://www.johndcook.com/blog/2010/01/19/dont-invert-that-matrix/]
talking about it's harms. And check out this
(paper)[http://www.netlib.org/lapack/lawnspdf/lawn27.pdf] if you want a full
mathematical explanation.
```

```{admonition} Note 2
Check out the numpy reference
[np.linalg](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/routines.linalg.html) to
learn more about the linear algebra functions available
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
x = np.linalg.solve(A, b)
print(x)
```

> 

Reviewer: Again, it would be nice to add some commentary on what the user sees here. What does `x` represent? What values are we supposed to expect?

--> 399     r = gufunc(a, b, signature=signature, extobj=extobj)
    400
    401     return wrap(r.astype(result_t, copy=False))

~/Documents/venv_global/lib/python3.8/site-packages/numpy/linalg/linalg.py in _raise_lina
lgerror_singular(err, flag)
     95
     96 def _raise_linalgerror_singular(err, flag):
---> 97     raise LinAlgError("Singular matrix")
     98
     99 def _raise_linalgerror_nonposdef(err, flag):

LinAlgError: Singular matrix
```

```{figure} imgs/pikachu_surprised.jpg
---
width: 400px
---
An error, how unexpected!
```

As a programmer you need to get used to reading error outputs. Looking at the
last line it says that there is a `Singular Matrix` error.  This happened
because the rows of the $A$ matrix are linearly dependent, $Row1 = Row2 + Row3$.

```{math}
A =
\begin{bmatrix} 
-R2-R3 & +R2 & +R3\\ -R2 & R2+R4 & -R4 \\ -R3 & -R4 & R3+R4 
\end{bmatrix}
```

This can be easily confirmed by taking the determinant of $A$:
```
Det = np.linalg.det(A)
```

## Conclusion

### On your own

* Try doing a nodal analysis.
* Try to catch a Pikachu, you can find him in Viridian Forest.

### In practice...

> The python code written in `Part 1b` can indeed be written without any
> `for-loops` (use `range` to set the value of $V$)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The code written in `Part 1b` can indeed be written without any `for-loops` (use `range` to set the value of $V$).
- There are many occasions in which the `scipy.linalg` module is preferrable over the `numpy.linalg` module. For more information on this, check the [scipy.linalg Reference](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/linalg.html).
```
